# THE CALL STACK

"A call stack is a mechanism for an interpreter (like the JavaScript interpreter in a web browser) to keep track of its place in a script that calls multiple functions — what function is currently being run and what functions are called from within that function, etc.

- When a script calls a function, the interpreter adds it to the call stack and then starts carrying out the function.
- Any functions that are called by that function are added to the call stack further up, and run where their calls are reached.
- When the current function is finished, the interpreter takes it off the stack and resumes execution where it left off in the last code listing.
- If the stack takes up more space than it had assigned to it, it results in a "stack overflow" error." [^1]

Functions are added to the call stack when invoked and will be ignored until the interpreter reaches and reads it's invocation. The Call Stack is a data structure that uses the `LIFO` principle, or `L`ast-`I`n `F`irst-`O`ut meaning that the last function to be added to the Call Stack will be the first to be taken out when the function returns. The Call Stack can only do one thing at a time and the execution of the code is synchronous and takes up memory for the period that it exists within the call stack.

A stack overflow can occur when there is a recursive function that calls itself indefinitely with no exit point. The call stack is not an endless bank and the browser handling it will eventually error out if that call stack overflows.

[^1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Call_stack

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
