# 6 Reasons For Pair Programming

Pair Programming, exactly as it's name suggests, is the process of programming in pairs. In that two-person team there is a division of the work, with a *Driver* who handles the mechanical aspects of coding like typing, file management, etc. and there is the *Navigator* who steers the Driver in the right direction. This breaking up of responsibility spreads the mental and physical load over two people, allowing for improved code quality. And by nature of two people working together and talking their way through the logic and syntax it helps developers from becoming stuck. Whereas an individual might become stuck on a problem and unknowingly spend a large amount of time in their own head figuring it out, in pair-programming there are two brains involved in each problem and thus far more bandwidth for actively finding a solution, or for the navigtator to research a solution while the driver works some other things out.

* Greater Efficiceny: Pair Programming is proven to create quality code at the cost of taking slightly longer. Quality code is obviously less prone to bugs however, and can shave time off in the long run by reducing the amount of time spent on debugging.
* Engaged Collaboration: Aside from being more efficient code, the coders themselves are more efficient workers with a programming partner serving also as an active check on progress, and the social aspect of pair programming being more engaging than sitting alone in front of a computer, constantly tempted by the world of the internet just a tab away.
* Learning from Fellow Students: That active check of working so closely with another developer also serves to elevate both developers skillsets by having them share their knowledge with each other. With different neural pathways being exposed to one another each developer can acquire tools at a much quicker rate than discovering them entirely on their own.
* Social Skills: Software development has the reputation of being a lonely job, with developers hunched over computers hissing at passers-by. By encouraging active collaboration through pair-programming social and teamwork skills are maintained and improved by working so closely with a partner.
* Job Interview Readiness: Pair programming a code challenge or debugging a script with an active employee is an activity used in some interview processes to test an applicant's actual ability to engage, communicate, and collaborate with a partner.
* Work Environment Readiness: Many graduates of CS have little to no experience with pair programming, making it's use in the CodeFellows curriculum an added skillset as employers would not have to spend time training you on the Pair Programming process.

## JavaScript and JQuery

JQuery is a faster, simpler and more powerful method by which to access, manipulate and handle HTML elements. It exists as a JS file on the web page and allows you to select elements using familiar CSS selectors and then manipulate them with built-in JQuery methods. Much like the DOM, you can target individual elements and store that JQuery targeting in a variable. And like the DOM JQuery has methods and properties with which to manipulate the elements and nodes of the DOM.

```JS
jQuery() // the JQuery function

$('element.class') /* Shorthand for the JQuery function, targeting an element with a specific class and creating a JQuery object for it.*/

$('p.article').addClass('complete'); /* An example of manipulation using JQuery, where the method to the right of the member operator (the period) is used to update the elements of the JQuery object to its left. In this case the value of "complete" is added to the 'article' classes attribute */ 

```

JQuery differs from the DOM in that it has cross-browser support, it uses CSS style syntax making it easier to understand and navigate with a decent grasp on CSS, Event Handling is simpler as it only uses one method to do so, methods affect each element, eliminating the need for a loop to move through them, built in methods are available for popular animations and you can apply multiple methods to one selection.

Appendix of JQuery selectors and methods, pages 302 - 305.

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
