# Mustache and Flexbox

JavaScript templating is a technique of using HTML elements with specific templating tags to insert JavaScript variables or run logic or render view templates from a JSON source. The templating engine replaces the variables in the template file with actual files when the page is loaded, and converts the template into an HTML file.

**Mustache** is a logic-less templating syntax that can be used for HTML and many other files and code. It is considered "logic-less" because it is a template sans-logic like loops, if/else statements, etc. and only uses tags. `mustache.js` is the mustache template syntax used in JavaScript. 

```CSS
Mustache.render("Mustache syntax looks for {{placeholders}} nestled between double curly braces, and on page load will search for the placeholder {{name}} property of the object passed into it on the JS side and replace that placeholder with an actual {{value}}.)
```

**FlexBox Layout** is a CSS module that is attempting to make CSS styling more efficient in terms of layout, alignment and space distribution when the size of elements within the container are unknown or dynamic, such as they are in the world of Responsive Web Design. This flexbility of boxes (FLEX. BOX. get it?) is designed obviously to give the boxes that make up web pages the flexbility to fill the space available on the screen, again a strong case for its use in RWD.

Flexbox is a module, meaning there are many properties that must work in conjunction for it to work properly. The `flex container` or the parent element takes in specific properties, and the children of the container, or the `flex items` take in a different set. Whereas the CSS we are used to is based on block, inline, and inline block display properties, flex is based on `flex-flow directions` of the `main axis` (X axis) and the `cross axis` (Y axis). These rules are not hard and fast in terms of the flow or layout of objects and can be further manipulated with `flex-direction` for example determining horizontal flow originating from either side of the page or vertical flow of items again with the ability to begind from the bottom or top.

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
