# Responsive Web Design and FLOATS

Responsive Web Design (RWD) is a response to the growing number of people accessing the internet from phones or devices other than home computers, and the need to build websites in such a way to be accessible from a cell phone or a desktop. The fundamentals of Responsive Web Design are the means to *respond* and adapt rapidly to factors in a positive way, so for example the website is just as communicable in portrait mode as when you turn your phone to landscape mode and the layout changes automatically. This differs from Adaptive design which creates a set of layouts to respond to specific changes, or Mobile design which creates an entirely different website for cell-phone browsers.

RWD has three major components: Flexible layouts, media queries, and flexbile media.
As the name suggests, *flexible layouts* components looks to build the layout in a *flexible grid* so it can resize and rearrange itself based on the window it is being displayed on. Because flexibility is the main goal of this component, it is good practice to use relative length units when sizing elements, and to stay away from fixed-measurement units like pixels and inches. The Flexible Grid Formula is an easy method to identify the proportions of a layout in relative values. `target / context = result` that is, dividing the width of a child element by the width of it's parent and the result (moving the decimal to the hundredths place) is the ideal width percentage of the element.

The second major component, *Media Queries* allow for multiple styles to exist depending on the browser or device used to access the website and it's viewport and in the case of mobile devices it's orientation. The best method to use media queries is to use `@media` within the existing css stylesheet to limit the HTTP requests. `@media` has three logical operators with which to create expressions. `@media and` allows an extra condition to be attached to the expression.

```CSS
@media all and (min-width: 800px) and (max-width: 1024px) {...}
```

For example this expression targets `all` media types between 800px `and` 1024px wide and executes styling on screens within those sizes.

The operator `not` specifies any query except for the one identified in the expression.

```CSS
@media not screen and (color) {...}
```

This expression seemingly targets color screens, but with the `not` operator included at the beginning it apparently flips it, targeting screens that don't have color (black and white, monochrome) with styling executed specifically on those screens.

The operator `only` apparently is new and is not recognized by HTML4 and hides the styling from devices or browsers that don't support it.

```CSS
@media only screen and (orientation: portrait) {...}

```

This expression executes styling `only` on screens that support portrait orientation.

Media queries as I seem to understand them are much like conditional statements or loops that execute only if the targeted query finds a match with the browser or what have you that accesses it.

Flexible Media, the third component to RWD is the principle of allowing media size and windows on pages to scale up or down as the viewport size increases or decreases. A quick way to have media automatically scale is to assign their elements with a `max-width` property with a value of 100% as that will make it scale down according to the width of it's container. For embedded media with no container to be scaled down with you need to place that embedded media *absolutely positioned* within a parent element with a width of 100% and a height of 0.

```HTML
<figure>
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4Fqg43ozz7A"></iframe>
</figure>
```

```CSS
figure {
  height: 0;
  padding-bottom: 56.25%; /* 16:9 */
  position: relative;
  width: 100%;
}
iframe {
  height: 100%;
  left: 0;
  position: absolute;
  top: 0;
  width: 100%;
}
```

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
