# Java Basics

## Variables

There are four fifferent kinds of fields and variables to be found within Java.

* Instance Variables (non-static **fields**). Non-static refers to a field that is declared without using the keyword *static*. Instance Variables refer to the fact that their values are unique to each object. From a perspective coming from JS, they are locally scoped, not global, so their name can be reused and their value unique.
* Class Variables(static **fields**). Is any field declared with the *static* keyword/modifier. This modifier communicated to the compiler that this variable is unique.
* Local Variables. Declared identically to other fields, this type of variable is defined not by it's keyword but by where it is declared within a method, and thus only exist within the scope of that method.
* Parameters are the variables living within method signatures, `public static void main(String[] args)` the `args` call is a Parameter variable.

Like within JS, varaible names are case sensitive, and camelCase is the norm when using a a variable name containing multiple words.

## Operators

Operators | Precedence
--|--
postfix | expr++ expr--
unary | ++expr --expr +expr -expr ~ !
multiplicative | * / %
additive | + -
shift | << >> >>>
relational | < > <= >= instanceof
equality | == !=
bitwise AND | &
bitwise exclusive OR | ^
bitwise inclusive OR | \|
logical AND | &&
logical OR | \|\|
ternary | ? :
assignment | = += -= *= /= %= &= ^= |= <<= >>= >>>=

## Expressions, Statements, Blocks

* **Expressions** are constructs of variables, operators and methods that evaluate to a single value.
  * Compound expressions are multiple expressions built upon one another `1 * 2 * 3` Order of operations must be observed to obtain an accurate value, to that extent wrapping part of the mathematical expression in parentheses can maintain the desired order: `(x + y) / 100` works while `x + y / 100` does not. PEMDAS, yo.
* **Statements** are similar to a sentence, with a period replaced by a semicolon to indicate that it is finished. There are Expression, Declaration and Control Flow statements.
  * Expression Statements are, as the name somewhat implies, expressions that are terminated with a trailing semicolon.
  * Declaration statements declare variables
  * Control flow statements determine the order in which statements are used.
* **Blocks** are groups of statements between curly braces `{ statements and stuff }`

## Control Flow Statements

Java will naturally execute the statements within your source files from top to bottom and in the order that they appear. The use of *Control Flow Statements* break that linear flow through the use of decision statements, looping and branching so that the program executes the code in a manner you desire, instead of just how it wants to. Bend the code to your will! Some of the statements are familiar coming from JS but there are some new ones in here as well/. Decision Making statements consiste of `if-then, if-then-else, switch` Looping statements are `for, while, do-while` and Branching statements are `break, continue, return`

### A quick note on Compiling

I've seen the term "compiling" being thrown around the Java park now and then, so seems like it's time to know what that is. Compiling seems to be the translator from human to machine language. Computers don't read Java, they read ones and zeros and the compiler takes the code that we write and translates it into the binary language that computers can read and understand. The languages that we code in to speak with computers is just an intermediary, a demilitarized zone between Man and Machine.

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
