# Stacks and Queues

Stacks are data structures of Nodes, much like Linked Lists. Each Node knows of the next Node in line, but not what is behind it.

- Push
  - Nodes or items put into the stack are pushed.
- Pop
  - Nodes or items removed are popped.
- Top
  - The top (head) of the stack
- Peek
  - Peeking displays the value of the top
- IsEmpty
  - Returns true if the stack is empty, else returns false

  First-In-Last-Out is a concept of stacks, meaning the first item Pushed will be the last to Pop
  Last-In-First-Out means that the last item Pushed will be the first to Pop

  Stacks are like a pipe with only one open end. Things can only be added from the top, and when they're added they're the top of the stack of things in the pipe. And similarly when you want to remove something from the pipe, you can only ever remove the top most item, and the item below it becomes the new top. To push a node into a stack is to assign it as top. The previous top then becomes top.next and so on. The previous top has to know it's place in the world too, so it should be assigned as top.next when the new top is declared.l The operation is O(1) because it always takes the same amount of time regardless of the size of the stack.

```Java
ALOGORITHM push(value)
// INPUT <-- value to add, wrapped in Node internally
// OUTPUT <-- none
node = new Node(value)
node.next <-- Top
top <-- Node
```

  Pop O(1)

  In the pipe analogy only the top ball in the pipe can be removed at a time. Removing it is to pop it, and the top.next will be assigned to top. The top needs to have a place for it's data to be saved while the new top is being declared, so a temporary variable that holds on to it while the new top gets comfortable is necessary.

```Java
ALGORITHM pop()
// INPUT <-- No input
// OUTPUT <-- value of top Node in stack
// EXCEPTION if stack is empty

  Node temp <-- top
  top <-- top.next
  temp.next <-- null
  return temp.value
```

  Peek O(1)

```Java
ALGORITHM peek()
// INPUT <-- none
// OUTPUT <-- value of top Node in stack
// EXCEPTION if stack is empty

return top.value
```

IsEmpty O(1)

```java
ALGORITHM isEmpty()
// INPUT <-- none
// OUTPUT <-- boolean

return top = NULL
```

Queues

- Enqueue - Nodes or items that are added to the queue.
- Dequeue - Nodes or items that are removed from the queue. If called when the queue is empty an exception will be raised.
- Front - This is the front/first Node of the queue.
- Rear - This is the rear/last Node of the queue.
- Peek - When you peek you will view the value of the front Node in the queue. If called when the queue is empty an exception will be raised.
- IsEmpty - returns true when queue is empty otherwise returns false.

First-In-First-Out/Last-In-Last-Out

enqueue O(1)

```Java
ALGORITHM enqueue(value)
// INPUT <-- value to add to queue (will be wrapped in Node internally)
// OUTPUT <-- none
   node = new Node(value)
   rear.next <-- node
   rear <-- node
```

dequeue O(1)

```java
ALGORITHM dequeue()
// INPUT <-- none
// OUTPUT <-- value of the removed Node
// EXCEPTION if queue is empty

   Node temp <-- front
   front <-- front.next
   temp.next <-- null

   return temp.value
```

Peek O(1)

```java
ALGORITHM peek()
// INPUT <-- none
// OUTPUT <-- value of the front Node in Queue
// EXCEPTION if Queue is empty

   return front.value
```

isempty O(1)

```java
ALGORITHM isEmpty()
// INPUT <-- none
// OUTPUT <-- boolean

return front = NULL
```

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
