# Ethics in Tech

The ethics of tech have been my biggest obstacle in this endeavor. Notably the question if there *are* ethics in Big Tech, and even if there are can I reckon with my own morality against them in pursuit of money. The idea that any one of these companies with their slick mission statements and carefully curated code of ethics will ever truly abide by them outside of token showings is difficult to abide. Is even the existence of some of these companies ethical? Does they help more than they damage? Amazon providing customers with an endless selection of plastic churned out of factories only to end up in the garbage in exchange for a little rush at the novelty of receiving something. Google packaging you up and selling you to advertisers, Twitter and other mass communications censoring at will. The song and dance of equality, fairness, openness, privacy, environmentalism, etc they put on, orchestrated carefully by massive marketing firms hold truth like a sieve holds water. And fuck these anemic displays of rebellion by their employees. Bemoaning some trendy issue then putting their blinders back on and going back to work turning the screws.

Social media is a blight with no exceptions. It serves no purpose but to be a skinner box trading the impression of acceptance for your unyielding attention. Attention used to inundate you with propaganda and advertising. Not a platform for expression but a lathe to shape yourself into whatever you must be to receive the 'likes' for your dopamine fix. Harvesting the things that make you who you are just to sell you a product or an idea. Utterly soulless and dehumanizing. Adults, scared and quaking from fear of rejection revelling in the inoffensive, the unchallenging and the banal. Cowardly humunculi, crowding together in a din of pointless utterances hoping that their carefully manufactured expression will garner attention. I will not work for social media in any capacity. Unethical doesn't begin to describe it. A perfect mechanism to steal away life and humanity and give absolutely *nothing* in return.

>And Nothing is very strong: strong enough to steal away a man’s best years not in sweet sins but in a dreary flickering of the mind over it knows not what and knows not why, in the gratification of curiosities so feeble that the man is only half aware of them, in drumming of fingers and kicking of heels, in whistling tunes that he does not like, or in the long, dim labyrinth of reveries that have not even lust or ambition to give them a relish, but which, once chance association has started them, the creature is too weak and fuddled to shake off... ...Indeed the safest road to hell is the gradual one—the gentle slope, soft underfoot, without sudden turnings, without milestones, without signposts

[<== Back to Readme](/README.md)
