# Socket.io

1. Describe “The Cloud”

It's really just the internet. Term usually used in conjunction with storage or computing which again uses the internet for those purposes. Servers very far away from you are holding your data to give you the illusion that it's not taking up space and just exists in an ether.

2. What is a container (as it relates to computers and servers)?

"A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another."

3. What is auto-scaling?

"A method used in cloud computing for managing amount of computational resources in a server farm on as-needed basis"

4. What is bandwidth?

The max rate of data transfer over a network.

5. How do cloud providers compute service costs?

As far as AWS is concerned "AWS pricing is similar to how you pay for utilities like water and electricity. You only pay for the services you consume, and once you stop using them, there are no additional costs or termination fees."

### Document the following Vocabulary Terms

Term | Definition
-----|-----------
Server Instances | collection of SQL databases run by a single server
Containers | "A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another."
Cloud Services | Services offered through the cloud Elastic Beanstalk, Google Drive, wildly difference services but it's all still "cloud" based
Cloud Architecture | The combination of components to create a "cloud"
AWS | Amazon Web Services. Very useful cloud computing and storage tools made available by amazon to further make their position in our lives indispendable and court massive government contracts. Best not to worry about it, it's convenient after all.
EC2/Beanstalk vs Heroku | Comparable features and pricing, but Heroku's pricing is O(n^2) when it comes to auto-scaling while Beanstalk is O(n). Heroku is easier to get up and running though.

[<== Back to Readme](../README.md)
