# Past, Present, Future of Web Application Storage

Cookies are the traditional method for small amounts of persistent local web storage but they can slow down the web application by needing to be reloaded every single time, they're insecure and the information is included with the HTTP unencrypted, and they're limited by a paltry 4KB of data which isn't very useful compared with modern data usage. 

Web Storage also known as HTML 5 Storage or Local Storage or DOM Storage was originally a part of the HTML5 specification but broke off into it's own specification. It functions much like cookies in that it stores named key/value pairs (like from a JS object?) locally within the browser and will persist even after the user navigates away from the website or closes the browser. It solves the security issue of cookies in that the data is not transmitted to a web server. The following code allows access to HTML5 Storage

```JS
function supports_html5_storage() {
  try {
    return 'localStorage' in window && window['localStorage'] !== null;
  } catch (e) {
    return false;
  }
}
```

As already mentioned HTML5 Storage is based on named key/value pairs. Data is stored to a named key string and data is retrieved using that same key. The data itself can be any JS data like another string, boolean, integer or float but the data is stored as a string. For storing and retrieving any other type of data than string you need to use a `parseInt()` or `parseFloat()` function.

```JS
interface Storage {
  getter any getItem(in DOMString key);
  setter creator void setItem(in DOMString key, in any data);
};
var foo = localStorage.getItem("bar");
// ...
localStorage.setItem("bar", foo);

var foo = localStorage["bar"];
// ...
localStorage["bar"] = foo;

interface Storage {
  deleter void removeItem(in DOMString key);
  void clear();
};

interface Storage {
  readonly attribute unsigned long length;
  getter DOMString key(in unsigned long index);
};
```

PROPERTY | TYPE | DESCRIPTION
-|-|-
key | string | the named key that was added, removed, or modified
oldValue | any | the previous value (now overwritten), or null if a new item was added
newValue | any | the new value, or null if an item was removed
url | string | the page which called a method that triggered this change

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
