# Forms and Events

## Forms

Forms are a type of element that allows you to collect information that a user fills out on your page. Things like a log-in box where you type in your username and password, a place to leave a review or comment. Checkboxes, drop-down boxes or buttons. The controls for the forms live inside the element `<form>` and will usually have a method and an id attribute. The value of the attribute `action` within the form element is the URL for the page that the server will receive information for.

Methods are the means by which the forms are sent using one of two methods, Get or Post. The Get method attaches the value of the form to the end of the URL from the action attribute and is good for short form search boxes or retrieving information from the server. The Post method sends the values through an "HTTP header" and are used for forms that allow users to upload files, is long, contains sensitive data or adds information or deletes information from a database.

The `<input>` element is used to create form controls. The value of the `<input type ="">` attribute determines the type of input it creates

```html
<form action="http://www.example.com/login.php">
<p>Username:
 <input type="text" name="username" size="15"
 maxlength="30" />
</p>
</form>
```

`type="text"` creates a single line of text input. `name=""` This represents the name of the form's control attribute so it can be identified when the input information is sent to the server
`size=""` The number value added to the size attribute represents the width of the text input window, with each number representing the width of a single character
`maxlength` limits the amount of characters that can entered into the text input field.

```html
<p>Password:
 <input type="password" name="password" size="15"
 maxlength="30" />
</p>
```

`type="password"` creates a text input box that functions just like a single line text input box except the characters entered are blocked out. This atttriute can be included within the same `<form>` element.

`<textarea>` creates a multi-line text input window defined through it's `cols="20"` for it's width and `rows="4"` through it's height.

`type="radio"` allows users to select a single item among multiple choices. Among the same selection window the `name` attribute should be alike so the information from each selection is sent to the server similarly. `value=""` defines the text associated with the radio selection. `checked="checked"` is an optional element that determines if the type it's associated with is checked by default when the form loads.

`type="checkbox"` allows users to check and uncheck multiple answers to a question. The name attribute should be alike for all elements you want in the same checkbox. It retains the same elements for the `radio` type.

A drop down list for a user to select a single option can be created with the `<select name="">` element with `<option value="">item name</option>`. Adding the `multiple="multiple"` attribute within the `<select name="">` element allows you to select more than one item.

```html
<form action="http://www.example.com/upload.php"
method="post">
<p>Upload your song in MP3 format:</p>
<input type="file" name="user-song" /><br />
<input type="submit" value="Upload" />
</form>
```

The `input` element allows for files to be uploaded and the "post" value of `method` is necessary.

```html
<input type="text" name="email" />
<input type="submit" name="subscribe"
 value="Subscribe" />
 ```

The submit value allows the user to send information to a server

```html
<input type="image" src="images/subscribe.jpg"
 width="100" height="20" />
 ```

 This input type allows you to use an image for your subscribe button.

 ```html
 <fieldset>
<legend>Contact details</legend>
<label>Email:<br />
<input type="text" name="email" /></label><br />
<label>Mobile:<br />
<input type="text" name="mobile" /></label><br />
<label>Telephone:<br />
<input type="text" name="telephone" /></label>
</fieldset>
```

Using the fieldset element like in the example above allows you to group multiple input elements together within a single labeled box.


[<== Back to Readme](README.md)