
# HTML & CSS

### Structural Markup
Defines the structure of the page and the text

Tag | Element | Usage
----|---------|------
`<h1>` | Heading(s) | Used for main `1` through sub `2` headings growing smaller incrementally though `6`
`<p>` | Paragraph | Organizes it's content into a paragraph when otherwise a whole page would be displayed as a block of text
`<b>` & `<i>` | `b`old and `i`talic text | Place a word or sentence within the element for the browser to translate contained text to bold or italic markup
`<sup>` `<sub>` | `sup`er script and `sub`script | Superscript minimizes and raises characters like an exponent on a number while Subscript minimizes and lowers it for use as a bibliographical annotation
`<br />`, `<hr />` | Line breaks & Horizontal rules | Use line breaks to move text to the next line without having to start a new paragraph, such as writing a haiku. Horizontal Rules create a horizontal line where places. These are empty elements and usually only uses an opening tag

### Semantic Markup
Semantic markup can often mirror the effects of structural markup but their purpose is for *describing* your webpage for search engines or for screen readers.

Tag | Element | Usage
--|--|--
`<strong>`, `<em>` | Strong and Emphasis | Browsers will display the content of these tags in bold and italics respectively
`<blockquote>`, `<q>` | Blockquotes and quotes | Blockquotes will indent a longer piece of text while the quote tag places quotes around it's content but not all browsers read it. Both tags provide the option to cite a source


### Introductory CSS
CSS is the gravy on your bland piece of HTML Turkey breast. Dressing it up, making it look (I'm dropping the food analogy) good and allowing you to customize individual pieces of your HTML document like individual paragraphs or headers or the behavior of list items or make sweeping changes that affect the entire page.

A page of HTML can be seen as series of boxes with text within them. CSS Allows you to manipulate both what is in the box and the box itself. Creating outlines and filling in the background color within that box and changing the look of the text as well and altering the behavior of things like list elements within them.

CSS functions as a series of declarations, usually a naked HTML character (that is without it's brackets) defined as a  *selector* followed by curly braces with declarative content on how the HTML element selected will be changed. You can attach multiple elements to each declaration by separating them wioth a comma, and multiple declrations can be added by adding them on a new line within the curly braces and ending each subsequent declaration with a semi-colon. Example:
```
h1, p {
    background-color: red;
    color: green;
    border-bottom: 5px gold; 
}
```

Within the curly braces you have the *property* such as `color:` which indicates what part of the selected element you want to change, followed by the *value* which specifies *how* you want that part of the element changed. In this case: `green;` specifies `color` which changes the color property of the `h1` and `p` HTML elements

CSS can be implemented externally by adding a link within your HTML to a separate CSS document 

`<link href="stylesheet" type="style.css">`

CSS can also be added internally within an HTML document, which can become cluttered and difficult to read given enough of each type of code, but it can be handy if it's a simple page with only a few elements you need to change. Create a `<style> </style>` tag and insert your CSS code between them.
```
<style>
  h1, p {
    background-color: red;
    color: green;
    border-bottom: 5px gold; 
  }
</style>
```
CSS handles redundancy such that if there are identical selectors and they're not separated by class or ID then the *latter* selector's property will be applied. Browsers read CSS top-down and will overwrite a previous selector with the newest one it's read, which would be further down the page.

Child elements will often inherit the same property as it's parent. For example if you target the `body` selector and change the text color it will apply to all text within the body. Placing a latter `p` selector and giving it a different text color will change the color of content within `p` tags but everything else will retain the color property edited by the `body` selector

## Basic JavaScript and Loops

JavaScript, as it's name would imply, is a script. And to a computer as to a person a script a series of instructions to follow in the specific order it's written in. The script we use to communicate with a computer must be precise, or it will not understand and usually do it wrong if it does it at all. Each individual step you provide a computer is called a *statement* and should end with a semicolon and start on a new line.

### Variables
A computer may sometimes require data which it has no need to permanently store outside of the immediate session. This short term memory can be accomplished with the use of *variables* which function much like their algebraic counterparts in such that you define a variable and assign it a value and are then free to use that defined variable throughout the remainder of the equation, or in this case the remainder of the script.
```
var x = 7
```
`var` declares a variable and the proceeding `x` defines it. ` = 7` if it really needs explanation assigns the value of 7 to the variable x. A variable can store numeric data like that used in the above example, string data which can be letters or numbers (which are unable to be used in a numeric equation and will instead simply be plugged in wherever the variable defines it to) and boolean data which BOOEALS down to true or false.

### Arrays
An Array is a type of variable able to store multiple values, which are able to be called upon. The mechanics of this variable make it useful when creating lists where the amount of values is yet unknown. You can create an array instead of a different variable every time you need to add something to the list.

Creating an array works the same as creating a variable. You declare a variable(`var`), give it a name and then assign it a value, but again an array can contain multiple values and there are multiple ways to assign them.
The preferred and simplest method is to arrange them linearly, called an *array literal*.
```
var x;
x = ['A', 'B', 'C'];
```
You can also list the values each on their own line, which can be more or less clear depending on how many values you have to deal with. You can also use an *array constructor*.

```
var x= new Array('A',
                'B',
                'C');
```

Behind the scenes, the values within the arrays are organized within a numbered starting with `0` so taking the above examples the order of the values would be
- A: 0
- B: 1
- C: 2

Knowing what place these variables are in is important when accessing them.
```
var y;
y = x[2];
```
In this example a variable `y` is declared and it's value is assigned to be item 2 within the array variable. Remembering that the list begins with 0, the value of `y` would be `C`

### Decisions and Loops
You can control how your script responds to input, creating a more dynamic website. You do this by *evaluating* values in your script and make a determination on if they meet your expectations. You then make a *decision* based on that evaluation on which path your script should take. You can then *loop* the process back and repeat the same steps until you get a desired evaluation.

Evaluation usually is the comparison between a known and a variable valued by user input. Comparing the two with an *operator* and returning a Boolean true or false value of which both values can have an assigned statement. To further complicate things, there are multiple operators you can use.

Comparison operators are opposed on either side by an operand which can be a value or a variable and the entire statement closed within parentheses. Example: `(x > y)`. An operand can be an entire expression enclosed within it's own set of parentheses as well, and compared to another expression through a comparison operator.

Comparison Operator | Use
--------------------|-----
`==` | Compares two values
`===` | Compares two values and their associated data types
`!=` | compares two values to see if they are *not* the same
`!==`| Does the above but also takes into account data type of the values
`<, >` | less & greater than
`<=,+>` |less & greater than *or equal to*

Logical operators similarly compare expressions, but expressions that also contain logical operators.

Logical Operator | Use | Example
-----------------|----|----------
`&&` | Tests more than one condition | ((2 < 5) `&&` (3 >=2)) = true
`||` | Tests at least one condition | ((2 < 5) `||` (2 < 1>)) = true
`!` | Inverts a single boolean value | `!`(2 < 1) = true

*If* statements are used to execute code blocks when the condition it's attached to returns a *true* value. The *conditional statement*  `else` will return it's code block if the condition returns false. Example:

```
var x = 8;
var true = correct
var false = incorrect

if (x >100) {
    true();
}
else {
    faslse();
}
```





[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
