# Object-Oriented Programming, HTML Tables

## Domain Modeling

- Creating a conceptual model in code for a specific problem
- Describes entities, attributes and behaviors and the constraints of the problem domain.
- An **Object-Oriented** model is an entity that stores data within properties and behaviors within methods
- Well made domain models validate understanding of a problem and defines vocabulary to be used between those who write the code and those decide what the end result should look like

```JS
let EpicFailVideo = function(epicRating, hasAnimals) {
  this.epicRating = epicRating;
  this.hasAnimals = hasAnimals;
}
let parkourFail = new EpicFailVideo(7, false);
let corgiFail = new EpicFailVideo(4, true):

console.log(parkourFail);
console.log(corgiFail);
```

To define properties within objects you use a **constructor function*

`EpicFailVideo` is a variable declared as a function with the parameters `epicRating` and `hasAnimals`. When this function is called the data within the parameters is stored within `this.epicRating` and `this.hasAnimals`. With the constructor function defined two more objects are **Instantiated** with the `new` key word and they are **initialized** by calling the function. When both objects are instantiated and intitialized the objects are stored inside of `parkourFail` and `corgiFail` variables and the two objects are console logged.

The above describes basic object-oriented programming.

- the keyword `new` Instantizes or creates and object
- the constructor function initializes properties within the object with the `this` variable
- the object is stored in a variable to be called later

### RNGesus

```JS
var EpicFailVideo = function(epicRating, hasAnimals) {
  this.epicRating = epicRating;
  this.hasAnimals = hasAnimals;
}

EpicFailVideo.prototype.generateRandom = function(min, max) {
  return Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1)) + min;
}

var parkourFail = new EpicFailVideo(7, false);
var corgiFail = new EpicFailVideo(4, true);

console.log(parkourFail.generateRandom(1, 5));
console.log(corgiFail.generateRandom(1, 5));
```

the `Math.random` function (capital M! JS is case sensitive!) returns a randomly generated number that can be anything at all or anything within certain limitations that you set. In the above example a method is added to the functions that will return a random number and the console log is set to return integers into the parameters of the `generateRandom` method which is assigned to a function with two parameters of `min` and `max` and uses `Math.floor` and `Math.random` to calculate and return a number between `min` and `max`. When `parkourFail` is run it searches it and doesn't find `generateRandom()` it then goes to search for it within the newly created `prototype` where it passes it's integers of 1 and 5 into it as the minimum and maximum number for the RNG machine to generate to the console log.

## Functions methods and objects continued

Whereas on the last reading literal notation and dot notation were explained there is also the constructor notation.

```JS
CONSTRUCTOR NOTATION
let hotel = new Object ();
hotel.name = `Quay`;
hotel.rooms = 40;
hotel.booked = 25;
hotel.checkAvailability = function() {
  return this.rooms - this.booked;
}
```

For comparison...

```JS
LITERAL NOTATION
let hotel = {
  name: `Quay`
  rooms: 40
  booked: 25
  checkAvailability: function (){
    return this.rooms - this.booked;
  }
}
```

The benefit of using the constructor notation is it's ability to be used as a template for multiple similar objects that may have different values, such as multiple locations of the same chain of cookie stores that want to record different sales data under the same parameters. Each object will have to have it's own individual name obviously.

```JS
let quayHotel = new Hotel('Quay', 40, 25);
let parkHotel = new Hotel('Park', 120, 77);
```

In this example two different hotel objects are called to use the constructor function, placing in order new values as arguments into the method.


[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
