# Audio, Video, Images

## Images

Control the size of an image in CSS similarly to how you control the size of any other box elements (which it kinda is) by defining the width and height by pixels. If you have standardized image sizes for the website you are to design it can be helpful when first building out your wireframe to create classes for your image sizes instead of having to change the size of each image individually.

```CSS
img.large {
width: 500px;
height: 500px;}
img.medium {
width: 250px;
height: 250px;}
img.small {
width: 100px;
height: 100px;}
```

Classing your elements become increasingly useful when planning out your page. Similar to sizing your image elements before placing them you can also set to align them. Use CSS to create rules for your HTML elements and then insert your HTML and have it be aligned automatically. In these examples we float images left and right so their accompanying text flows around them and also align the elements to be in the center of the page.

```CSS
img.align-left {
float: left;
margin-right: 10px;}
img.align-right {
float: right;
margin-left: 10px;}
img.medium {
width: 250px;
height: 250px;}
img.align-center {
display: block;
margin: 0px auto;} 
```

Background images can be tasteful and they can be gaudy, but having an improperly sized background image repeat itself in tiles throughout its element is sure to be the latter. You can halt the repetition with a simple `no-repeat` value of the `background-repeat` property. `repeat-x` and `repeat-y` force an image to repeat horizontally or vertically, whereas `fixed` forces the image to stay in one position as the page scrolls, good fora body background image, and `scroll` fixes the image to the browser window and will keep it's position as the user scrolls through the page.

## Practical Information

Basics of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is the practice of helping your website fit the metrics of search engines to help push it nearer to the top of a list when a user searches for keywords and topics that your website covers. Just like determining the styling and content of a website boils down to what your intended user wants to see, so too does your SEO need to court the audience that your product is built for. SEO scans your website for keywords and phrases and also how many other websites link to you, which with the increasing centralization of the internet is probably more and more difficult. Anyway, on-page and off-page techniques are used for SEO. On-Page techniques is the use of keywords within your HTML tags and also your text content that your audience could possibly put into a search engine. Alt-text on your images are important for search engines scanning your page for content possibly related to a user search. Off-Page techniques concerns other websites linking to yours. The more that do the higher your ranking becomes and the higher you can be placed on a search engine. This seems incredibly difficult to do considering only the first few results on a search engine ever get clicked.

Because of the difficulty in competing with major content aggregators it's important to plan your SEO by researching and brainstorming for keywords that a user might type, organize them into ways that you could incorporate into your website. As with any other product you should compare your product with it's competition. Constantly refinine your page by measuring it's metrics like visits, views, average time on site and altering your keyword selection when necessary.

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)