# HTML Lists, CSS Boxes, JS Control Flow

### Lists
Here's a list of lists.
1. numbered or *ordered* lists
1. ordered lists `<ol>` list their list items `<li>` numbered in the order listed

- *Unordered* `<ul>` lists
- Unordered lists use a bullet point for each of their child `<li>` (list items)

* *definition* `<dl>` lists
* this parent tag lists elements that are going to be defined
* you have the `<dt>` or definition term which is the item to be defined
* then you have the `<dd>` which indents below the `<dt>` providing a clean space to define the term

1. *nested* lists
1. these are lists elements within list elements, creating a sub list. a child list. a nested list. so many lists I can't even list them all.

### Boxes
CSS interprets HTML elements as if it were inside of its own box, stacked among all the other boxes of neighboring elements. What CSS can do is alter the dimensions of those boxes and alter their looks. Like taking an Amazon box and cutting a piece off and refolding it to make it smaller, and then adding wrapping paper and ribbons and what-have-you to it to present the HTML inside to the user in an appealing way.

#### Dimensions
The boxes of HTML grow and shrink with their contents, meaning they're always just big enough to fit their content vertically. Horizontally though they will stretch from one side of the page to the other even if there are only a handful of words in them. This can obviously look strange, so resizing the boxes *dimensions* is a way to clean up your page. The *height* and *width* properties of your HTML element can be defined through pixel count or a percentage relative to the browser window.

```
p {
  height: 500px
  width: 75%
  background-color: mauvestorm
}
```
You can also set a minimum and maximum width of a box through the `min-width: ;` and `max-width ;` properties to ensure the windows scale properly on smaller devices so the content stays visible. The same can be accomplished for height parameters with `min-height: ;` and `max-height: ;` properties. If the box is too small to fit all of it's content you can set `overflow:` proprties with a value of `hidden` to hide all content that doesn't fit or you can use `scroll` value to create a scrollbar on the box so users can move through the box to see the content.

### Borders, Margins and Padding
All boxes have borders that separate them from other boxes. By default they have a pixel width of 0 so they remain invisible you can attach properties to these to make them large, dotted, doubled up, rounded and colored. The margins of a box sit right on top of the border, and you can alter the width of your boxes margins to create additional space between it and other boxes. Everyone needs their personal space somtimes. Padding is like the margin except it isn't. Instead of a buffer between your box and another box the padding is the buffer zone between your box and it's contents. If you've ever gotten a massive package with a tiny item inside, all that empty space can be considered padding and on the flip side if you don't have enough padding the borders of the box close in and make the content look claustrophobic.

By default the content in the box will be aligned to the left, but you can change where in the box it sits with `text-align: left/center/right;` and how much space you want on either side of it by adjusting the pixel (`px`) `height` and `width`

Block-level boxes can also be made to be inline and inline into block with `display: inline/block` or create a hybrid inline-block element with the esoteric `inline-block` property.

### JS Decisions and Loops 
##### Continued from Read-02
If/Else Statements provide multiple paths depending on the true/false status of the statement. Following the code block of the `if` statement you create a new line starting with `else` and a code block to be executed. Whereas a simple `if` statement only runs when it's condition returns *true*, an if... else statement returns a statement under both conditions.

To further complicate matters we have *Switch* statements, better explained through the followind example.

```
switch (x) {
  case 'A':
    title = '1';
    break;

  case 'B':
    title = '2';
    break;

  case 'C':
    title = '3';
    break;
}
```
The switch statements provides the flexibility for multiple outputs from multiple variables.

### Loops

Loops can be thought of like a simple switchboard, wherein if an estalbished condition returns true a separate code will run and the condition will be checked again until it reads false which will halt the repetition. There are three main loops...

- *While* loops are for when you don't know how many times the code needs to run itself, and can run indefinetly
- *Do...While* loops are idential to their cousins, the *while* loops with the exception that they will always run their code at least once even if the first evaluation returns *false*
- *For* loops will run a code a specified amount of times.
  - *for* loops use a counter as their condition which is built with three pieces...
    - **Intialization** `var i = 0;` the variable is set to 0 and the variable itself is called `i` and serves as a counter
    - **Condition** `i < 10;` as the value of i was previously set to 0, the loop will return *True* until it has run 10 times and `i < 10` becomes a false statement
    - **Update** `i++` is the condition that adds 1 to the variable i every time the statement in the curly brackets (run during each True statement) in the loop has run. This adds to the counter, eventually bringing it to 10 and making `i < 10` a false statement


    
[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
