# JavaScript Debugging

The first step to find the source of an error is to follow the order of execution. Scripts can have interlocking reliability with one another, so a script near the top of that pyramid may cause problems for the many scripts below it that rely on it's information or syntax. Every statement within a script lives within one of three *Execution Contexts*. Global context which is a script that resides within a page not bound by a function and thus can be accessed by all. Function context as it's name suggests is a script that is run from within it's own unique function. Eval context which I guess isn't that important because it's not covered in the slightest. Global and Function context correspond with Global scope and Function-level scope. Global states that a variable declared outside of a function can be used anywhere whereas function level scope states that when a variable is declared within a function it can only be used within it's containing function.

Debugging is a process of deduction. Going through interdependent lines of code sometimes one-by-one to find the culprit.

## Console

The `console.log()` method is a way for your code to return information to the console rather than your page, and test to see if the return you're getting is what you intend. This is handy especially when your return may not be something visible but instead logic running behind the scenes. `console.log()` can be placed nearly anywhere on it's own line of code, and within it's parentheses can be notes for yourself or your team, or within a function can be parameters which if logged indicate that the parameters are being received and the function is processing them correctly. `console.info()` can be used for general notes to the dev/team. `console.warn()` can be used to indicate a warning and `console.error()` can be used to hold an error.

## JS Error Objects

When an error is created and displayed to the console it will contain four properties.

- `name` which describes the type of execution
- `message` which is the decription of the error
- `fileNumber` which names the offending JS file
- `lineNumber` which specifies the line of code within the JS that is creating the error.

And within JavaScript are 7 error objects that can be displayed to the console.

- `Error` as as generic as it looks and obviously is a simple statement that an error has occurred
- `SyntaxError` states that proper JS syntax has not been followed.
  - Could be a missing bracket, semi-colon, quote, comma, etc
- `ReferenceError` has tried to reference an undeclared or out of scope variable
  - Referencing a variable that is not defined, perhaps trying to reference a variable with function-level scope within a separate function or globally.
- `TypeError` is an unexpected data type
  - Commonly found when trying to use an object or method that doesn't exist, perhaps due to improper syntax like capitalization
- `RangeError` states that numbers are not within an acceptable range
- `URIError` when `encodeURI()` and `decodeURI()` are not used correctly
- `EvalError` when the `eval()` function isn't used correctly

## Debugging Cheat Sheet

Methods to use during debugging

- Try another browser to see if the issue is specific to your browser
- Add numbers into the console to see which of the numbers are logged, and where the numbers stop could be where your erro resides
- Remove sections of code (comment out, don't delete!) where you think the error may reside to see what breaks the code or what allows it to run. A simple process of deduction to find the guilty script.
- Talk through the code to yourself or a team/classmate. The process of voicing it aloud and walking through it for someone who hasn't seen it could illuminate some errors
- Do some research for your error or troublesome script
- Validation tools onlone (jslint.com for example) can automatically audit your code to find potential errors that the console may not report.

[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
