# HTML Links, JS Functions, and Intro to CSS Layout

## Links

Links bridge (I didn't want to say link again) you to other places on the web. Be it within your own page, website, or to email applications.

`<a href="http://www.wikipedia.org">Wikipedia</a>`

Links exist within an open `<a >` tag with the demonstrated `href="">` attribute. The *link text* that exists between the closed tags is the text that will be demonstrated on the page that the user will be able to click on to direct them to the linked page.

That same format can be nested within other tags to link the user to other pages on the same site. Within the list elements on a nav bar for instance. The quoted text within the `href=""` attribute would be a ***.html*** file within the same folder, or you can navigate within the element itself in the same way you navigate the console by using `/` to indicate a movement into the next folder named.

Create a link that will launch an email application, good for a contact page.

`<a href="mailto:baxance@protonmail.com">Email Barrett</a>`

Links within a page are useful for a large single page with multiple subjects listed in a persistent navogation bar. The element you want to link to will have to have an `id` attribute so you can identify it.

`<a href="#id_name">navigation name</a>`

## Layout

As notated in the previous reading, CSS sees each HTML element as content within a box. Either an *inline* box or *block-level* box. Block level elements start on a new line while inline elements will flow between surrounding text. And just like HTML tags and directory folders can have parent/child, nest/egg, or whatever other analogy you want to use, so to do boxes. Block-level elements specifically can nest within eachother, creating a containing element.

Positioning Scheme | Action
--|--
Normal Flow | Block level elements all appear on a new line
Relative Positioning | shifts a specified elements in one of four cardinal directions
Absolute Positioning | Removes the element from normal flow, and will persist in its position as the user scrolls through the page
Fixed Positioning | Similar to Absolute Positioning except the element does not move with the scrolling of the page
Floating Elements | Moves an element to the far left or right of it's containing box. Turns it into a block-level element that other content can flow around

Fixed Width layouts remain constant as the browser window size fluctuates. This gives the creator increased control over the appearance of the pages but can sometimes turn it into a square peg going into the circular hole of a device with a smaller screen or of a much larger screen than the page was intended for, created empty space on the page to fill in the gaps created.

Liquid Layouts as their name may suggest are fluid and flexible and will contract and expand with the size of the browser window. The downside of this flexibility is that different screen sizes can also cause your content to shift outside of your control. The advantages and disadvantages of both Layouts should be taken into consideration along with the target audience of your website. Identifying if that audience is more likely to view your page on a small mobile device or more standardized computer monitors.

### CSS Frameworks
can greatly simplify the structuring of your website by creating a framework that you can print out, with pixel size within each box. A lot like the wireframe for an HTML page a CSS Framework can help you maintain the image you inteded when implementing CSS

## JavaScript Functions, Methods and Objects
### An Introduction
A function can function much like a variable. Like calling a variable for it's value you can call or invoke a function for a series of statements that live within it to accomplish a specific task. When you need that task completed you can invoke it's function rather than typing out the code again. This helps you keep your code clean.
```
function functionName() {
  console.log('content');
}
```
- Declare the function
- Give the function a name
- within the curly brackets reside the code Statement to execute the task
- call the function by saying it's name
- `functionName();`

The parentheses beside the function name are used for functions that need information, and the content that goes within is called a parameter
```
function getArea(width, height) {
  return width * height;
}
```
The parameters are named within the parentheses to be used within the code block like variables. When you call a function that needs information you call it thusly, using the example function above but giving the appropriate value for each parameter. `getArea(5, 5);`

Functions can perform calculations and spit out an answer where it is invoked.
```
function calculateArea(width, height) {
  var area = width * height;
  return area;
}
var wallOne = calculateArea(3, 5);
var wallTwo = calculateArea(8, 5);
```
Where the function is called in the bottom two lines of code it will return a multiplication of the two values provided to it's parameters. This function is a simple equation and will only return a single value. We can create a more complicated function by integrating an array thusly
```
function getSize(width, height,  depth) {
  var area = width * height;
  var volume = width * height * depth;
  var sizes = [area, volume];
  return sizes
}
var areaOne = getSize(3, 2, 3)[0];
var volumeOne = getSize(3, 2, 3)[1];
```


[<== Back to Readme](README.md)