# Problem Domain, Objects and the DOM

## The Problem Domain

The hardest part of programming to learn?! But what is it? The article never really says, but the first result on google from Definitions.com gives us this:
>A problem domain is the area of expertise or application that needs to be examined to solve a problem. A problem domain is simply looking at only the topics of an individual's interest, and excluding everything else.

Basically, the Problem Domain can be a hindrance when trying to learn something new like coding because the student if given a project with too much focus on the Problem Domain will focus on what the project is for. Focusing on the practicality of what they are building instead of focusing on what they need to learn in order *to* build it. But if you can supply yourself with a clear understanding of the problem domain of the task you have to handle then it can make the task much easier because of the lack of ambiguity. The article comes to the conclusion, it seems to me, that by giving people clear instructions it makes performing their job easier.

## Objects

Objects group together variables and functions to create a recognizable model, and within those objects those variables and functions have different names. *Variables* become *Properties* and **Functions** become **Methods**. Properties tell you about the project, while Methods are tasks associated with the objects.

Properties and Methods have names and values called keys, and an object can only have one key with the same name. Keys are used to access their corresponding values which can be strings, numbers, booleans, arrays or other objects. The value of a method is always a function.

Within the code block starting with the curly braces of `var hotel = { }` could be the following. Reminder that properties are variables and methods are functions
Key | Value | Value Type
-|-|-
`name:` | `'Quay',` | String Property
`rooms:` | `40,` | Number Property
`booked:` | `25,` | Number Property
`gym:` | `true,` | Boolean Property
`roomTypes` | `['twin', 'double', 'suite'],` | Array Property
`checkAvailability:` | `function() {return this.rooms - this.booked;}` | Function within a Method (which is also a function of a different name)

Literal Notation is the easy and popular way to create an objects. In the example above, all the code between the curly braces broken down in the table in the proper syntax would be an object, and `hotel` would be it's name. Within an object keys are separated from their values by a colon and properties and methods are separated with a comma, exception for the final value.

Dot Notation is the process of accessing an objects and/or it's properties and methods.

```JS
var hotelName = hotel.name;
var roomsFree - hotel.checkAvailability();
```

Use the name of the object you want to reference followed by a member operator (a period since I forgot that). The period, or a dot, is indicative of dot notation. In the example above two variables are created to hold the name of the hotel and the availability of rooms.

If for whatever reason you need to access the properties but not the methods of an object you can use square bracket syntax.

```JS
var hotelName = hotel['name'];
```

This notation is used when the name of the property to be referenced is a number or when a variable is used in place of a property name.

```JS
var hote l = {
  name: 'Quay',
  rooms: 40,
  booked : 25,
  checkAvailability: function() {
    return this.rooms - this.booked;
  }
} ; 

var el Name = document .getElementByld('hotelName');
elName.textContent =hotel .name;

var elRooms = document.getElementByid{'rooms');
elRooms.textContent = hotel .checkAvailability(); 
```

In the code example above we have the content of the page being updated with data from the object's name property and the `checkAvailability()` function.
To access a property call the name of the object followed by a period and then the name of the property you want to reference. To reference a method enter the object name, period, method name and then the method parameters if necessary.

## Document Object Model

The DOM specified how browsers create a model of HTML and how JS can update the page in real time opened in a browser. DOM is neither HTML not JS. It is it's own beast used by all major browesers and covers **Making a model of the HTML page** and **Accessing and changing the HTML page**

The broswer represents the page using a DOM tree made out of four main Nodes and every element, attribute and text in HTML is represented by it's own DOM node.

- The Document Node sitting at the top of the tree represents the entire page and is the starting point for accessing all other parts of the HTML document
- The Element Nodes represent all of the elements of the HTML doc
- Attribute Nodes represent the attributes that reside within the opening tags of an HTML element
- Text Nodes are the text within the element and unlike the three nodes prior, text nodes do not have children.

To work with the DOM tree is to navigate and locate the node representative of your target element and then use it's content, elements and children.

- Step 1: Access Elements
  - Select individually
    - `getElementById()` uses the value of an elements unique ID
    - `querySelector()` uses a CSS selector and returns the first matching element
  - Select Multiple
    - `getElementByClassName()` selects all elements that have a unique class attribute
    - `getElementsByTagName()` Selects elements with specified tag name
    - `querySelectorAll()` Selects matching elements through CSS selector
  - Move between nodes
    - `parentNode` selects parent of current element
    - `previousSibling / nextSibling` selects previous or next sibling from the tree
    - `firstChild / lastChild` Selects first or last child of the current element
- Step 2: Work with Element
  - Access or Update text nodes
    - `nodeValue` allows you to access/update a text node
  - Work with HTML content
    - `innerHTML`  allows access to child elements and text
    - `textContent` allows access to text content
    - `createElement()/createTextNode()/appendChild()/removeChild()` various methods to create, add, and remove nodes
  - Access or Update attribute values
    - `className/id` allows you to get / update the value of the class and id attributes
    - `hasAttribute(), getAttribute(), setAttribute(), removeAttribute()` Check if an attribute exists, what it's value is, updates it's value, removes attribute

```JS
document.getElementByID('one')
```

Selecting individual elements. In this familiar example we can see how it interacts with the DOM tree. `document` referring to the Document Node, the top of the DOM tree, so all other objects can be found within it. The period as explained before is the member operator that indicates that the method on the right is being applied to the node on the left, it's the chain that joins the two. `getElementbyID()` is the method joined to the Document. It states that you want to find within the document an element with it's ID specified by the parameter within the parentheses, in this case `('one')`

```JS
var elements = document.getElementsByClassName('hot')
if (elements.length>= 1) {
  var firstltem = elements.item(O);
}
```

Selecting an element from a Nodelist.

```JS
var elements = document .getEl ementsByClassName('hot');

if (elements.l ength> 2) {

  var el = elements[2];
  el.className = 'cool';
}
```

Selecting elements by attribute

```JS
var elements = document.getElementsByTagName('li ');

if (elements.length> O) {

  var el = elements[O];
  el.className = 'cool'; 
}
```

Selecting elements by tag name

```JS
var el = document.querySelector('li.hot');
el.className = 'cool';

var els = document.querySelectorAll('li.hot');
els[1].className = 'cool';
```



[<== Back to Readme](README.md)
